---
layout: page
title: commit-msg
permalink: commit-msg/
---

If applied, this commit will _\<your subject line here>_

The idea with commits are to commit often, so you easily can revert and easily see the progress.

Writing detailed commit messages is a burden that will discourage you from committing early and often.

You need to tidy commit messages up a bit before sharing it with other people. Look into tools like ```--fixup``` and ```--autosquash```.

Aim for atomic commits: each commit should do one thing only. Similarly, a pull request should aim to fix one bug or implement one new feature. It should only contain multiple commits if that is required to fix the bug or implement the feature.

If your commit / pull request title contains the word "and" then you probably should have used two commits / pull requests.

## Example

```
Short (72 chars or less) summary

More detailed explanatory text. Wrap it to 72 characters. The blank
line separating the summary from the body is critical (unless you omit
the body entirely).

Write your commit message in the imperative: "Fix bug" and not "Fixed
bug" or "Fixes bug." This convention matches up with commit messages
generated by commands like git merge and git revert.

Further paragraphs come after blank lines.

- Bullet points are okay, too.
- Typically a hyphen or asterisk is used for the bullet, followed by a
  single space. Use a hanging indent.
```

> The blank line separating the summary from the body is critical.

## Subject line (required)

- Limit to 50 characters
- Minimum x characters
- Do not end with a period
- Capitalize the subject line and each paragraph
- Use the imperative mood

## Body (optional)

- Wrap the lines at 72 characters
  - URLs longer than 72 characters get their own line
- Explain the need for the change (the why)
- Describe any limitations this commit introduces

## Metadata (optional)

- Put metadata at the end of the commit message
- References to other systems

```
Fixes: #123, #124
Fixes: JIRA-123, JIRA-124
Issues: JIRA-123
Signed-off-by: Me me@example.com
Tested-by: You you@example.com
```

## Things to avoid

- Mixing whitespace changes with functional code changes.
- Mixing two unrelated functional changes.
- Sending large new features in a single giant commit.